README.md, before:

# jitsi-community

This project allows users to sign up to a Jitsi instance using a web UI.

**IMPORTANT WARNING: There is currently no automated way to migrate your 
users from the Prosody user database into the Django database.**
We had a small number of users that we migrated manually
by recreating their user accounts in Django admin console.

The web UI is a Django instance. It repurposes [Django's admin
Console](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/ref/contrib/admin/) to provide 
a way to manage users. The 
[regisitration-redux](https://django-registration-redux.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) 
module provides a way for users to sign up, regisitration-redux is configured
to require [admin approval](https://django-registration-redux.readthedocs.io/en/latest/admin-approval-backend.html)
of new user accounts. To link Jitsi to the Django user database a Prosody 
module is supplied. To get the version of Prosody that ships as part of 
Ubuntu 20.04 to work with the SHA256 hashes that Django uses, the Prosody 
utils module, hashes.so, has to be replaced with a newer version. The 
requirements.txt includes a dependency for [Gunicorn](https://gunicorn.org/) to serve Django. Also provided are 
systemd unit files for a socket and service to keep it running.

## Licenses

The solution reuses code from various projects and as such those parts fall
under following licences:
* Code reused from Django - [BSD-3-Clause](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/bsd-3-clause/)
* Code reused from Prosody and the Prosody community modules - [MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

All code not falling under the above is dual licensed under 
[Apache-2.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/) and
[MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Directory structure
|Directory          |Explanation|
|-------------------|---|
|meet-accountmanager|a Django application for user sign up|
|prosody            |contains files for Prosody|
|systemd            |unit files for services and socket|
|configuration      |example configuration files|
|util               |utility scripts|

## Installation

These instructions are for installation on Ubuntu 20.04.  They
assume that you already have a working Jitsi installation and mariadb is installed and ready to go.
We followed these Digital Ocean community tutorials to set them up:
* [How To Install Jitsi Meet on Ubuntu 20.04 By Elliot Cooper](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-jitsi-meet-on-ubuntu-20-04)
* [How To Install MariaDB on Ubuntu 20.04 By Brian Boucheron and Mark
Drake](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-mariadb-on-ubuntu-20-04)

### 0. Download the files
Download the two archives from (jitsi-community Releases)[https://github.com/publiccodenet/jitsi-community/releases].

### 1. Create a MariaDB database and users for our services.
Open the MariaDB client:
```sh
mariadb
```
In the following section change _<replace with password>_ for the accountmanager and the Prosody database users. Run it to create the database:
```mysql
CREATE DATABASE accountmanager CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci;

CREATE USER 'accountmanager'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '<replace with password>';
GRANT CREATE, ALTER, INDEX, SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT, DELETE, REFERENCES ON accountmanager.* TO 'accountmanager'@'localhost';

CREATE USER 'prosody'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '<replace with password>';
GRANT SELECT ON accountmanager.* TO 'accountmanager'@'localhost';
```


### 2. Create a system user and group for the meet-accountmanager service.

```sh
sudo adduser --quiet --system --home "/var/lib/meet-accountmanager" --group meet-accountmanager
```

### 3. Create directories
Create home, configuration and logging directories for the
meet-accountmanager service to use. The logging and home directories should be
writable by the service.

```sh
sudo mkdir -p /{etc/meet-accountmanager,/var/{lib,log}/meet-accountmanager}
chown -R meet-accountmanager:meet-accountmanager /var/{lib,log}/meet-accountmanager
```

### 4. Install the meet-accountmanager Django app

Unpack the meet account manager archive into /opt/meet-accountmanager
```sh
sudo tar -xJf meet-accountmanager.tar.xz -C /opt
```

Configure Django's database connection by copying the example config 
into the configuration directory. Then edit the values:
```sh
cp /opt/meet-accountmanager/example-configuration/* /etc/meet-accountmananger/
chown root:meet-accountmanager /etc/meet-accountmanager/database.cnf
chmod 640 /etc/meet-accountmanager/database.cnf
```

Configure Django's email server password by placing it in the file `/etc/meet-accountmanager/email_password`.
```
touch /etc/meet-accountmanager/email_password
chown root:meet-accountmanager /etc/meet-accountmanager/email_password
chmod 640 /etc/meet-accountmanager/email_password
nano /etc/meet-accountmanager/email_password
```

Generate a secret key for session and cookie encryption:
```sh
cd /etc/meet-accountmanager/
umask 037
python3 /opt/meet-accountmanager/create_key.py key
umask 022
```

Configure the email accounts that will receive notifications for approvals.
Edit `accountmanager/settings.py`. Update the line with the emails:
```python
REGISTRATION_ADMINS = [('<change to name>', '<change to email address>')]
```

Activate the Python virtual environment and use Django's manage.py to
initialize the database:
```sh
cd /opt/meet-accountmanager
source venv/bin/activate
python manage.py makemigrations
python manage.py migrate
```

Add a Django admin user:
```sh
python manage.py createsuperuser
```
### Setup the systemd unit files for meet-accountmanager

Add the socket and service:
```sh
sudo cp systemd/meet-accountmanager.{service,socket} /etc/systemd/system/
```

Restart the socket and service:
```sh
sudo systemctl enable --now meet-accountmanager.socket
```

Test the Django socket
```sh
sudo -u www-data curl --unix-socket /run/gunicorn.sock http
```
The Gunicorn service should be automatically
started and you should see some HTML from your server in the terminal.

### Update the Nginx configuration

Add the following to your Nginx configuration for the Jitsi Meet site.
The file is located in `/etc/nginx/sites-available` and is probably
named `_<your site address>_.conf`.

Add the following before the first `server` block:
```
upstream accountmanager {
    # fail_timeout=0 means we always retry an upstream even if it failed
    # to return a good HTTP response
    server unix:/run/meet-accountmanager.sock fail_timeout=0;
}
```

Add the following block after the `location = /external_api.js` block:
```
    location ~ ^/static2/(.*)$ {
        add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' '*';
        alias /opt/meet-accountmanager/static2/$1;
	# try_files $uri =404;
        # cache all versioned files
        if ($arg_v) {
          expires 1y;
        }
    }
```

Add the following block after the `location = /xmpp-websocket` block:
```
    location ^~ /accountmanager/ {
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
        proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
        # we don't want nginx trying to do something clever with
        # redirects, we set the Host: header above already.
        proxy_set_header SCRIPT_NAME /accountmanager;
        proxy_redirect off;
        proxy_pass http://accountmanager;
    }
```

### Install the prosody modules
Unzip the Prosody zip file.
```sh
unzip prosody-native-utils-amd64.zip
```

Replace hashes.so with a version of hashes.so taken from a more recent version of Prosody
because we need SHA-256 support.
```sh
mv /usr/lib/prosody/util/hashes.so /usr/lib/prosody/util/hashes.so.bak
cp hashes.so /usr/lib/prosody/util/
cp mod_auth_sql_hashed.lua /usr/lib/prosody/modules/
```

### Edit the Prosody configuration for the Jitsi instance.
Configure the Prosody instance to use the auth_sql_hashed module and add an auth_sql block containing the credentials for the Prosody MariaDB user you created earlier.
In the configuration block for the Prosody host used by your Jitsi instance.
```lua
        authentication = "sql_hashed"
        auth_sql = { driver = "MySQL", database = "accountmanager", username = "prosody", password = "<prosody sql user password>", host = "localhost"
```
Restart the Prosody instance.

### Test the installation
Test that a user that is added in Django can log into Jitsi.

## References
The following sources were consulted to create the installation guide:
[Django documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/)
[Gunicorn documentation on deployment](https://docs.gunicorn.org/en/latest/deploy.html)
[django-registration-redux 2.9 documentation](https://django-registration-redux.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

Commit message:

Update the README with curl instructions.

README.md, after:

# jitsi-community

This project allows users to sign up to a Jitsi instance using a web UI.

**IMPORTANT WARNING: There is currently no automated way to migrate your 
users from the Prosody user database into the Django database.**
We had a small number of users that we migrated manually
by recreating their user accounts in Django admin console.

The web UI is a Django instance. It repurposes [Django's admin
Console](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/ref/contrib/admin/) to provide 
a way to manage users. The 
[regisitration-redux](https://django-registration-redux.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) 
module provides a way for users to sign up, regisitration-redux is configured
to require [admin approval](https://django-registration-redux.readthedocs.io/en/latest/admin-approval-backend.html)
of new user accounts. To link Jitsi to the Django user database a Prosody 
module is supplied. To get the version of Prosody that ships as part of 
Ubuntu 20.04 to work with the SHA256 hashes that Django uses, the Prosody 
utils module, hashes.so, has to be replaced with a newer version. The 
requirements.txt includes a dependency for [Gunicorn](https://gunicorn.org/) to serve Django. Also provided are 
systemd unit files for a socket and service to keep it running.

## Licenses

The solution reuses code from various projects and as such those parts fall
under following licences:
* Code reused from Django - [BSD-3-Clause](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/bsd-3-clause/)
* Code reused from Prosody and the Prosody community modules - [MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

All code not falling under the above is dual licensed under 
[Apache-2.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/) and
[MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Directory structure
|Directory          |Explanation|
|-------------------|---|
|meet-accountmanager|a Django application for user sign up|
|prosody            |contains files for Prosody|
|systemd            |unit files for services and socket|
|configuration      |example configuration files|
|util               |utility scripts|

## Installation

These instructions are for installation on Ubuntu 20.04.  They
assume that you already have a working Jitsi installation and mariadb is installed and ready to go.
We followed these Digital Ocean community tutorials to set them up:
* [How To Install Jitsi Meet on Ubuntu 20.04 By Elliot Cooper](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-jitsi-meet-on-ubuntu-20-04)
* [How To Install MariaDB on Ubuntu 20.04 By Brian Boucheron and Mark
Drake](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-mariadb-on-ubuntu-20-04)

### 0. Download the files
Download the two archives from (jitsi-community Releases)[https://github.com/publiccodenet/jitsi-community/releases].
You can use the command below to download a file, replace the _<url copied from releases>_:
```sh
curl -LO <url copied from releases>
```

### 1. Create a MariaDB database and users for our services.
Open the MariaDB client:
```sh
mariadb
```
In the following section change _<replace with password>_ for the accountmanager and the Prosody database users. Run it to create the database:
```mysql
CREATE DATABASE accountmanager CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci;

CREATE USER 'accountmanager'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '<replace with password>';
GRANT CREATE, ALTER, INDEX, SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT, DELETE, REFERENCES ON accountmanager.* TO 'accountmanager'@'localhost';

CREATE USER 'prosody'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY '<replace with password>';
GRANT SELECT ON accountmanager.* TO 'accountmanager'@'localhost';
```


### 2. Create a system user and group for the meet-accountmanager service.

```sh
sudo adduser --quiet --system --home "/var/lib/meet-accountmanager" --group meet-accountmanager
```

### 3. Create directories
Create home, configuration and logging directories for the
meet-accountmanager service to use. The logging and home directories should be
writable by the service.

```sh
sudo mkdir -p /{etc/meet-accountmanager,/var/{lib,log}/meet-accountmanager}
chown -R meet-accountmanager:meet-accountmanager /var/{lib,log}/meet-accountmanager
```

### 4. Install the meet-accountmanager Django app

Unpack the meet account manager archive into /opt/meet-accountmanager
```sh
sudo tar -xJf meet-accountmanager.tar.xz -C /opt
```

Configure Django's database connection by copying the example config 
into the configuration directory. Then edit the values:
```sh
cp /opt/meet-accountmanager/example-configuration/* /etc/meet-accountmananger/
chown root:meet-accountmanager /etc/meet-accountmanager/database.cnf
chmod 640 /etc/meet-accountmanager/database.cnf
```

Configure Django's email server password by placing it in the file `/etc/meet-accountmanager/email_password`.
```
touch /etc/meet-accountmanager/email_password
chown root:meet-accountmanager /etc/meet-accountmanager/email_password
chmod 640 /etc/meet-accountmanager/email_password
nano /etc/meet-accountmanager/email_password
```

Generate a secret key for session and cookie encryption:
```sh
cd /etc/meet-accountmanager/
umask 037
python3 /opt/meet-accountmanager/create_key.py key
umask 022
```

Configure the email accounts that will receive notifications for approvals.
Edit `accountmanager/settings.py`. Update the line with the emails:
```python
REGISTRATION_ADMINS = [('<change to name>', '<change to email address>')]
```

Activate the Python virtual environment and use Django's manage.py to
initialize the database:
```sh
cd /opt/meet-accountmanager
source venv/bin/activate
python manage.py makemigrations
python manage.py migrate
```

Add a Django admin user:
```sh
python manage.py createsuperuser
```
### Setup the systemd unit files for meet-accountmanager

Add the socket and service:
```sh
sudo cp systemd/meet-accountmanager.{service,socket} /etc/systemd/system/
```

Restart the socket and service:
```sh
sudo systemctl enable --now meet-accountmanager.socket
```

Test the Django socket
```sh
sudo -u www-data curl --unix-socket /run/gunicorn.sock http
```
The Gunicorn service should be automatically
started and you should see some HTML from your server in the terminal.

### Update the Nginx configuration

Add the following to your Nginx configuration for the Jitsi Meet site.
The file is located in `/etc/nginx/sites-available` and is probably
named `_<your site address>_.conf`.

Add the following before the first `server` block:
```
upstream accountmanager {
    # fail_timeout=0 means we always retry an upstream even if it failed
    # to return a good HTTP response
    server unix:/run/meet-accountmanager.sock fail_timeout=0;
}
```

Add the following block after the `location = /external_api.js` block:
```
    location ~ ^/static2/(.*)$ {
        add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' '*';
        alias /opt/meet-accountmanager/static2/$1;
	# try_files $uri =404;
        # cache all versioned files
        if ($arg_v) {
          expires 1y;
        }
    }
```

Add the following block after the `location = /xmpp-websocket` block:
```
    location ^~ /accountmanager/ {
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
        proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
        # we don't want nginx trying to do something clever with
        # redirects, we set the Host: header above already.
        proxy_set_header SCRIPT_NAME /accountmanager;
        proxy_redirect off;
        proxy_pass http://accountmanager;
    }
```

### Install the prosody modules
Unzip the Prosody zip file.
```sh
unzip prosody-native-utils-amd64.zip
```

Replace hashes.so with a version of hashes.so taken from a more recent version of Prosody
because we need SHA-256 support.
```sh
mv /usr/lib/prosody/util/hashes.so /usr/lib/prosody/util/hashes.so.bak
cp hashes.so /usr/lib/prosody/util/
cp mod_auth_sql_hashed.lua /usr/lib/prosody/modules/
```

### Edit the Prosody configuration for the Jitsi instance.
Configure the Prosody instance to use the auth_sql_hashed module and add an auth_sql block containing the credentials for the Prosody MariaDB user you created earlier.
In the configuration block for the Prosody host used by your Jitsi instance.
```lua
        authentication = "sql_hashed"
        auth_sql = { driver = "MySQL", database = "accountmanager", username = "prosody", password = "<prosody sql user password>", host = "localhost"
```
Restart the Prosody instance.

### Test the installation
Test that a user that is added in Django can log into Jitsi.

## References
The following sources were consulted to create the installation guide:
[Django documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/)
[Gunicorn documentation on deployment](https://docs.gunicorn.org/en/latest/deploy.html)
[django-registration-redux 2.9 documentation](https://django-registration-redux.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
